# Customer Lifetime Value Prediction
Business is getting more and more customer-centric today. Therefore it is important to know a customer's lifetime value(CLV), which will help busienss to concentrate their activities around their most profitable clients. The better a business understand CLV, the better its strategy at retaining their best customers.

## Introduction
**What is Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)?**
CLV naturally converges on the Pareto Principle: 20% of the customers represent 80% of the sales. CLV can be defined as the discounted value of future profits generated by a customer. It is a measure of the revenue that the business can make from a customer over their buying life cycle.

**What business questions can CLV answer?**
- \# of purchases a customer will make in life time
- How long to wait before considering a customer gone for good
- Predicting how much revenue generated from a customer in the future

**How to calculate CLV?**
CLV modeling need three key inputs:RFM
- Recency
- Frequency
- Monetary Value 

**Two modeling mothods**
- historical CLV
    Use historical data to evalute customer value
- predictive CLV
    - Forecast the future value  of an existing customer with transcation history
    - Predict the future value of first time customer


## About the Dataset
The dataset contains historical sales order data. 


## Data Exploration
Calcualte Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value of the customer based on the historical orders.

## Modeling
Features like average sales in last 2 months, 3 months, and count of sales, sales revenue, etc. are calcuated from the historical data.

Regression models are created. KNN models shows the highest prediction power.
